Our convention theme is so timely.
The world is full of conflict and anguish.
People long for peace,
and they long for unity,
which is the focus of this month’s broadcast.
Our theme is
“Stand Together as One United People.”
Let me begin with a question:
Where do you keep your wallet?
If you’re out in public,
you brothers likely keep it
in your pocket (maybe a front pocket)
so that it doesn’t get lost or stolen.
You sisters might carry your wallet
in a purse, or handbag,
which you keep close by your side.
You guard your wallet
because you know that if you get careless,
a thief might steal it
and you might never see
your wallet or its contents again.
It is similar with the precious unity
we enjoy as Jehovah’s people.
We need to guard it and protect it,
or else someone might steal it.
Make no mistake,
the Devil is looking for an opportunity
to steal our unity from us.
Think about how unique our unity is.
Unlike other religious organizations,
we’re not divided into subdenominations.
We don’t have Northern Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Orthodox Jehovah’s Witnesses,
or Reformed Jehovah’s Witnesses.
As the apostle Paul expressed it,
we are “united in the same mind
and in the same line of thought.”
We are also united internationally.
We don’t fight against one another
in the wars that divide nations.
And we are united racially.
Many times, Witnesses have risked their lives
to protect their fellow Christians
of another race who were being threatened
or persecuted
because of their racial or ethnic background.
We are also united in our purpose.
For example, no matter where we live,
we all preach the same good news
and we all receive
the same weekly spiritual instruction.
Can you find this unity out in the world?
Look around.
People are divided.
Nations attack each other.
And within nations,
political parties fight one another.
Corporations compete with
and destroy each other,
and citizens commit racially
or ethnically motivated hate crimes
against each other.
What a contrast that is
with Jehovah’s worshippers!
We stand together
as one united people.
Why, though, do we each need to guard
and protect our unity?
Can’t we safely assume
that Jehovah will protect it
and that he will see to it
that our unity is preserved?
Not entirely.
Guarding the unity of God’s people
is a responsibility
that Jehovah has given each one of us.
We must do our part to ensure
that we stand together as one united people.
What will happen if we don’t?
Divisions will occur among us
—divisions that resemble
what we see in the world.
It happened
in the first-century congregation in Corinth.
To them, Paul wrote
at 1 Corinthians 1:11:
“There are dissensions among you.”
What kind of “dissensions”?
Some said, ‘I belong to Peter’;
others said, ‘I belong to Paul’;
and still others said, ‘I belong to Apollos.’
Paul felt compelled to ask
at 1 Corinthians 1:13:
“Is the Christ divided?”
What a reproach on Jehovah’s name
and on true worship!
By failing to guard their unity,
those early disciples
were making Christianity
look like just another religion.
Could something like that
happen in a congregation today?
It could happen
if individuals cared more
about their own personal preferences,
conveniences, and opinions
than they do about the unity
of Jehovah’s people.
Selfishness is not
“the fruitage of [Jehovah’s] spirit.”
Rather, it reflects
“the spirit of the world.”
The world is aggressively promoting the view
that you should put yourself first,
but we have learned Jehovah’s view.
First Corinthians 10:24 tells us
to “keep seeking,
“not [our] own advantage,
but that of the other person.”
In chapter 13, verse 5,
Paul wrote that love
“does not look for its own interests.”
And he states at Romans 15:3
that “the Christ did not please himself.”
Therefore, we cannot afford
to care more about our privileges,
our pride, or our opinions
than we do about Christian unity.
If we put our own wants first,
then just like a man
who leaves his wallet out in public
for a thief to steal,
we place the congregation’s unity
in plain view for Satan to snatch.
And there is no doubt
that the Devil will seize the opportunity,
and the congregation will suffer.
We need to accept
our personal responsibility
to guard and protect our unity
not only as a congregation
but also as field service groups,
families, married couples, and friends.
So let’s now discuss four areas
where we especially need
to guard and protect our Christian unity.
The first is our response to direction
from Jehovah’s organization.
When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in 2020,
we all received direction,
including new ways to attend our meetings
and carry out our ministry
and ways to comply
with the secular authorities.
Did you disagree?
Or did you have a different idea?
If so, did you follow the direction anyway
and give it your support?
If you did,
then you contributed to our unity.
When we stand together
and unitedly follow direction
from Jehovah’s organization,
good things happen.
Like what?
Like what happened
when the first-century Christians complied
with the direction from the apostles
and older men in Jerusalem.
Acts 16:4, 5 says:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them
for observance the decrees
“that had been decided on
“by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.
“Then, indeed,
“the congregations continued
to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
Individual Christians and congregations
recognized and submitted to the authority
of the governing body at that time
—the apostles and elders
who were in Jerusalem.
Did you note the beneficial results?
“The congregations continued
to be made firm . . .
and to increase.”
And that’s what happened
when you brothers and sisters
followed the direction
regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.
We experienced significant increases
in meeting attendance.
The attendance for the 2021 Memorial
reached an all-time peak.
It is amazing
what Jehovah accomplishes
when we stand together
as one united people!
A second area in which we need
to protect our unity
is culture.
Jehovah’s organization is diverse.
We love to be introduced
to different kinds of food,
different styles of dress,
and interesting customs.
How wonderful!
But what if we started feeling that my race,
my tribe, my ethnicity,
my culture is superior?
Can you see how
that kind of thinking would divide us?
To preserve our unity, we need to focus,
not on how we are different from one another,
but how we are the same.
We are
Jehovah’s Witnesses first
—not African, Asian,
North American,
South American,
or European.
Our people
are our spiritual family
—our spiritual brothers and sisters.
Our culture is genuine Christianity.
When we are willing
to adopt Jehovah’s thinking
that we learn from his Word,
even setting aside our own
personal customs
or culture if necessary,
we stand together
as one united people.
We experience what the Bible describes
at Zephaniah 3:9:
“For then I will change the language
“of the peoples to a pure language,
“so that all of them
may call on the name of Jehovah,
to serve him shoulder to shoulder.”
How wonderful!
A third area
is personality differences.
Growing up in this divided world,
we may have absorbed
some of its sensitivities.
But Ecclesiastes 7:9 says:
“Do not be quick to take offense.”
If a fellow Christian hurts our feelings,
we have a special opportunity
and obligation
to show that we stand together
as one united people.
How can we do that?
Colossians 3:13 says:
“Continue putting up with one another
“and forgiving one another freely
“even if anyone has a cause
for complaint against another.
“Just as Jehovah freely forgave you,
you must also do the same.”
Note both phrases:
“putting up with one another
and forgiving one another.”
Some imperfections and slights are so small.
Do they really require formal forgiveness?
Because of our human imperfection,
we need to do what Paul says.
We have to learn to just put up with them.
For example, maybe a certain family
did not include us
in a gathering at their home
or a brother failed to greet us
in the Kingdom Hall or call on us
to give a comment at the meeting.
These things may irritate us
or even hurt our feelings,
but they are not sins
that we need to forgive.
They are mere slights,
or imperfections,
that we need to learn to put up with.
On the other hand, if a fellow Christian
has actually sinned against us in some way,
giving us a genuine “cause for complaint,”
what does the scripture encourage us to do?
‘Forgive one another freely.’
That is what Jehovah does for you and for me.
Putting up with and forgiving
one another is vital
if we are to stand together
as one united people.
Our fourth area is how we respond
when our brothers are in distress.
While coping with the COVID-19 pandemic,
numerous lands were hit by other disasters
—hurricanes, volcanoes, fires.
But our brothers also experience
other forms of distress,
like the effects of old age,
the loss of a loved one in death,
chronic health problems,
and the list goes on and on.
What do Jehovah’s Witnesses do
when we see our brothers in distress?
We immediately
come to their aid.
We stand together.
In this very selfish
and divided world,
this is not a small thing.
It is not something to take for granted.
Jesus said
at John 13:34, 35
that this deep,
unselfish love in action
would identify his true disciples.
Therefore, brothers and sisters,
as we work hard to stand together
in the four areas that we have discussed,
we give powerful evidence
that we are true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Jesus knew that unity was vital.
On the night before he was put to death,
he was concerned
that his disciples would remain united.
He prayed at John chapter 17
and verses 20-22:
“I make request, not concerning these only,
“but also concerning those
putting faith in me through their word,
“so that they may all be one,
“just as you, Father, are in union with me
“and I am in union with you,
“that they also may be in union with us,
“so that the world
may believe that you sent me.
“I have given them the glory
that you have given me,
“in order that they may be one
just as we are one.”
Obviously, Jehovah answered that prayer.
He is teaching us
to stand together as one united people.
Therefore, dear brothers and sisters,
let us renew our determination
to protect our Christian unity
by following direction
from Jehovah’s organization,
by valuing Jehovah’s thinking
more than our own culture,
by putting up with
and forgiving one another freely,
and by helping one another
in times of distress.
By doing so,
we will not allow Satan
to steal our precious unity.
Instead, we will stand together
as one united people.